Semester 2 EE6032/ED5012
 – Term Project Work – 
40% To be performed by GROUPS of THREE people.

1. Investigate and install the VC++ (other languages available also) Cryptography library called CHILKAT (http://www.chilkatsoft.com/)
	For examples of how this library is used see http://www.example-code.com/vcpp/default.asp

2. Using the example code provided above for help complete the following tasks.
	a) Implement (get working using the example code) the AES Symmetric Encryption Algorithm.
	b) Implement (get working using the example code) the SHA1 Hashing Algorithm.
	c) Implement (get working using the example code) the RSA Public Key algorithm. In this you
	   need to allow for the generation of the public-private key pair also.

3. Now using the code from part 2 implement the following:
	a) Allow two parties to:
		a. Mutually generate (mutually generated – two parties each provide a share of the password used to generate the secret/session key) a session key (for use with the AES symmetric Algorithm) using the RSA public key algorithm to exchange relevant and signed information.
		b. The following is to be provided:
			i. Data confidentiality.
			ii. Digital signature of session Key generation components.
			iii. Data integrity.

4. A User Interface/GUI of your own choice/design is to be provided. This is to allow a user to encrypt any of the following and send it 	to another user using either the protocol above to share a session key for use with AES or using the RSA algorithm by itself.
		c. String entered directly by the user.
		d. Full file contents – filename specified by the user.

5. How the two users send data to one another is entirely up to you. You can use simple email (both users perform their own encryption 		on their own PC and then email the encrypted file/string, key etc.) or you can use more advanced methods like Sockets (marks vary)

6. Final project files are to be emailed to me after final grading: 
	Thomas.newe@ul.ie

Subject line: EE6032-ED5012 Project files

Make sure all group members are cc on the email to me.
Only one email submission per group.

Look at the marking scheme below to see how the 40% will be distributed.
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
⇩
Marking Scheme
Total marks awarded are 40%, divided as follows:
1. Week 5 Grading in Lab.
	Section 2 above (implemented using the example code from CHILKAT): (10% total)
		a. AES Algorithm Code Working:	3% (Secret Key/Symmetric Encryption)
		b. SHA1 Code working:			3% (used for Hash/integrity)
		c. RSA Code working:			4% (Public Key/Asymmetric Encryption)

2. Week 7 Grading in the Lab. 
	Section 3 above: (10% total)
		a. Generate session key using a password generated by two parties: 5%
		b. Provision of confidentiality, digital signature and integrity: 5%

3. Week 9 Grading in the Lab.
	Section 4 above: (10% total) (marks are split evenly for AES and RSA)
		a. Single String Encryption/Decryption: 5%
		b. File Encryption/Decryption: 5%

4. Week 11 Grading in the Lab. 
	Section 5 above: (10% total)
		a. The better the method used here the more marks you will be awarded. 
		For example the use of email to simply email the key and encrypted files/strings will be awarded at most 3%. 
		Sockets or similar methods will be capable of being awarded the full 10